## 6th September

[entered in the diary as August] "When we crossed over to Somalic quay, we evacuated the remaining sick and wounded. Amongst both English and Russian there are some hopeless cases. What our next move will be we are anxious to know. Fifteen ratings are to be drafted to the King Edward in the morning. There has been some anti-aircraft firing today. Rumours are many and various. Bolos are supposed to be about 30 miles away. No one is to be allowed ashore unarmed, murders are frequent. Anyway I went through the city today and all was well. I'm staying on this boat at present. I went inside one of the churches this afternoon. It was most magnificent. All the work, panels etc were overlaid with gold and jewels. The paintings and figures representative of Bible stories, persons, scenes and incidents too were resplendent in polished gold and precious stones. Watching some of those that entered one could understand something of the power that priest craft has upon the national life. Those who entered bowed themselves right to the ground, some even crawling in, each one crossing them selves continuously. The churches are very numerous. Every short distance there is one. Indeed this is a city of churches. The lady who looked after this particular church goes by the name of Mrs or Madam Popoff. We had quite a long conversation together. Her knowledge of the English language was very good. Her husband was Captain Popoff. They had been to England several times. Visiting London, Newcastle etc staying two or three months each time. Captain Popoff has been killed by Bolos. They have 3 children, the two boys being in the Russian Army.