## 20th September

"Today has been exceptionally busy. The NACB stores are closing tomorrow and the officers wanted supplies, especially of whiskey and brandy so I had to go and see what could be done. First of all the vodka NACB stores were tried. This meant a long trip down the Troitsky prospect. A blank was drawn here so the next move was to go to Bakaritza which meant a ferry trip across the Dvina taking about an hour. Arriving there I saw an immense fish called a Sea Cow. It had been killed by bombs. It measured 14ft long by 3ft girth. In trying to haul it on to the quay the weight snapped a 3-inch hawser so a steam crane was brought alongside and hauled it out.

"It was at Bakaritza in 1916 that the disastrous explosion occurred which destroyed the largest Russian munitions works causing a great loss of life. I saw some of the effects of the explosion, also the great mound under which are buried some hundreds of those who were killed (about 500). Close to the quay the divers are still working getting up the sunken wreckage, machinery etc which was blown up with the warships lying alongside. The upper parts are still to be seen of a big battleship, which was sunk. Bakaritza is an enormous system of railway lines and store sheds. These are very large nearly all of them rebuilt since 1916. Of course there are dozens of sheds still to be erected. Everything is constructed of timber. The roads are made of wood. Many of the wharves are just simply built up by stacking logs of wood one upon another till they cease to sink and so a landing stage is made.

"My mission to Bakaritza was only partially successful. I just managed to get 6 bottles of whiskey; this occupied my time from 9am till 3pm. The SS Olitzka came down tonight towing the NT 245. This leaves one hospital boat, the Courier, up the river.

"Quite an exciting affair has just occurred. A motor driver took a wrong turn and drove his machine over the side of the quay between the quay and the barge. It hung there in peril but at last another motor got a tow rope on and we got some long poles as levers and finally managed to get it back into safety very little the worse. The driver had a severe shaking and a very narrow escape from drowning.