## 25th September

"Weather cold and wet. All the vessels have discharged their surplus food supplies to us. The barges have been finished with. The staff being transferred, to the Czar. This vessel, the Czar, is alongside the quay today taking off the troops from Smolny barracks. All the ships will be gone by Sunday. The hatches have been battened down on our boat and we sail this afternoon. Dasfidania Archangel. When next I see you may it be under happier circumstances.

"Anchor was weighed at 1.50pm. We left our berth at 2pm (having taken the pilot on board the previous night), and proceeded down the river at half speed. The sun was shining gloriously after a very wet morning. Archangel looked really beautiful from the river. Distance certainly lends enchantment in this instance. The golden spires, domes and minarets were glistening in the sunlight. The trees with all the beauty of autumn tints, the whitewashed houses and green slopes all contribute to make a picture of entrancing beauty. Disenchantment awaits those who walk its streets. Passing down the river the scene on both banks was lovely with autumn glory excepting as we passed Maimasea Island, which presented an awful picture of desolation after the terrible fire in July. The gaunt walls of the burnt out factories looked awfully forlorn, the ruins still smouldering; long stretches of quays which recently were covered with tremendous stacks of timber but now nothing but smoking ashes remain. Acres upon acres of ruins representing millions of roubles and this destruction the work of Russians themselves who have been influenced by Bolshevism.

"At 6pm we dropped the pilot at the mouth of the Dvina and now we are out in the White Sea en route for Murmansk.