## 6th June

"The voyage was continued on the 6th at 6pm. North Shields being our next port of call, where we arrived the next day. Our stay at Shields was most enjoyable giving us opportunities of visiting Newcastle and South Shields. It was at North Shields too where the discontent of crew and staff found open expression. Lining up on the top deck in front of the Captain's cabin we demanded to state our grievances. The Captain appeared and our case presented to him. The stokers and greasers absolutely refused to take the ship to sea unless great alterations were made both in regard to food and accommodation. At last definite promises were made that these matters would be remedied. The crew then returned to duty. Taking advantage of leave being granted we visited places of interest in the neighbourhood.

"Getting on a tram some little distance from the quay I had a nice ride to Newcastle and was well repaid. Fine buildings, streets and gardens and favoured with bright sunshine combined to give a very good impression of this city. It happened to be Whit Monday. The streets were thronged, everyone apparently bent on a days enjoyment. The weather was at its best behaviour, the glorious sunshine making the faces bright with gladness. One place, which claimed special attraction, is Jesmond Dene, a great natural park. Crowds of people gathered there for the day. In one part there is an open-air theatre and various other amusements. The lakes were very popular with the children. One regrettable incident occurred which marred the pleasure of a few holidaymakers. A little girl leaning over a high bank overbalanced and fell into the water. She would certainly have been drowned but for a sailor who chanced to be passing. He immediately went in and got her out. Except for the soaking neither were any the worse. It must have been very uncomfortable for the sailor. Jack always appears to be at hand when wanted.

"On the opposite bank to where our boat was lying is South Shields. I was fortunate in being able to visit this place several times and some very pleasant hours were spent on the sands, which extend far out and along the coast. The corporation has reclaimed some hundreds of acres from the sea and transformed the sands into parks and gardens. It reminds one of Southport. They have been somewhat spoilt by military operations. Gun emplacements have been erected and other parts commandeered for camps etc. Although the expense of reclamation was certainly heavy, yet the results have amply justified the expenditure.