## 15th June

"The boat left port for Lerwick, in the Shetlands, on June 15th at 4.15am, arriving at 10.15pm the same day. The weather was fine but cold. Lerwick is a place of some importance; there are some good-sized buildings. Unfortunately we were not allowed ashore because (so we were given to understand) of the misdeeds of former sailors, overstaying their leave etc, thus delaying the sailing of their ships, a very serious offence in the navy.

"We made the best of our stay and a boatman kindly did all he could for us in bringing goods from the shore. We were highly interested in watching the thousands of fish playing about the paddle wheels. We tried to catch them with all sorts of improvised fishing tackle, potato nets, coal sacks etc, but we were not very successful. Two small fish were the total results. We need not have troubled for fish could be bought cheap enough. A box of Kippers for 3/6, 72 large fish for 3/- and the sailors bought a large skate weighing some 60 or 70lb. The fish made a very welcome change from the continuous bully beef and biscuits.

"The provisioning of this ship is a positive disgrace to those responsible, also the absolute lack of accommodation for bathing and cleansing. So bad was the accommodation for the crew, and the food for us all, that at Shields the whole company lined up on the top deck to see the Captain and absolutely refused to take the ship to sea unless things were remedied. On the Captain faithfully promising to carry out some improvement the crew proceeded to their duties. It is needless to say that the promise was not fully carried out. I do not think that any of the sick berth staff would have gone to sea had they known the conditions under which they had to sail.