## 23rd-24th June

"Proceeding from Tromso at 5pm on the 23rd we arrived at Hammerfest the most northerly port in the world early in the morning of the 24th. This night I had my first view of the midnight sun. Hammerfest is a quaint little town and just at the back of it there is a very high hill on the other side of which is a lake, which was still frozen over. There was also plenty of snow. On Midsummer Day our lads had the unique experience of a good game of snowball. The entire absence of trees, shrubs etc give this region a very desolate and forlorn appearance. There are just one or two tiny wild flowers. In the windows one notices a few plants such as geraniums, ivy and carnations. The only relief to the monotonous aspects are the varied coloured houses. I noticed that in several of these Norwegian towns many of the houses had thick turf on the roof and long grass growing. The reason, so the people said, was to keep the interior warm during the winter. Coming up through these fjords there are many tiny little lighthouses perched on the points of rocks. These lighthouses are about as tall as a man and painted white. They are all connected with an electric station, lighting automatically.

"On June 24th at 10pm we left Hammerfest. All the population seemed to be on the pier to watch our departure. The skipper threw them all into a state of excitement by giving three tremendous blasts on the siren. It was amusing to see them crowding around the paddle box to watch the wheels revolve. One young urchin was caught actually crawling through one of the openings and was just rescued in time. It must have been a rare occurrence to see a paddle steamer. To them the London Belle was a very big ship. Many of them came aboard before we sailed. They admired the hospital beds (of which there are 156) and other arrangements for the reception of patients. The 18,000 horsepower engines were a source of wonder and fascination to the male portion of the visitors.

"Proceeding on our way towards the Murmansk coast we approached the most northerly cape in the world (North Cape). It is here that the best view of the midnight sun is to be obtained. We were particularly fortunate. Although there was a strong wind blowing the sun was unclouded. One of the finest sights I've seen was on this night at 12 o'clock, as bright and clear as a midsummer day in England. One of my mates took my photo on the upper deck just as the clock struck twelve. Both of us stayed on the deck till about 1am. It then became too rough so we turned into our hammocks.