## 25th-26th June

"As the morning advanced the wind increased so much that it was impossible for us to weather the North Cape. The course of the ship was altered to starboard and passing between some islands tried to escape the storm. The pilot should have been transferred to the mail steamer, which was sighted about 3am, but the rough sea made it altogether impossible. Our boat was now shipping a lot of water so we flew for shelter into a little fjord where is the small fishing village of Kjolly. We anchored here on the 25th. Just before entering this fjord a small tug was sighted apparently having a rough time of it. Sometimes her screw was some feet out of the water and it appeared as though she was nose-diving down below. There is only provisions, water and coal enough for two days. Unless the storm abates we must about ship and return to Hammerfest for fresh supplies. The ships steward tells me this morning that the last of the margarine has been issued. To atone for that a great surprise was sprung on us. The cook has actually made some bread. Of course this might have been done before, had it but occurred to the provisions department. The crews are anxious to know whether the treat is to be continued.

"Towards the morning of the 26th the storm slackened and we left Kjolly Fjord at 7am. The wind freshened up again and very soon the storm was worse than before and the poor old London Belle was having her roughest experience. Her starboard paddle wheel almost came off, her decks sprung and altogether things began to look awkward. The Captain tried to enter a little port called Vassoe, but no pilot answered our signals and after getting somewhat knocked about the Captain steamed ahead for Vardo, which was reached at midnight in beautiful sunshine. Crowds were waiting on the quay. In this part of the world the people take full advantage of the short summer time. The life of these Norwegian towns seems to commence after eleven at night when the folk come out for their pleasures. Vardo does the largest fishing trade in Norway. It is a dirty, dusty little town of about 3,700 inhabitants. There is always an intolerable small of fish and glue pervading the place. There are no trees or shrubs growing here. In a very few gardens just a limited number of flowers that we are accustomed to see in England such as tulips, daffodils, wallflowers etc. Not many wildflowers can be found, some small pink and white moss blooms, a yellow flower like a buttercup and one very much like our wild anemone appears to exhaust the catalogue. Provisions, clothing, ironmongery and in fact everything is very dear, excepting matches and fish. Margarine is 3/6, tea 5/-, boots 45/- to 50/- and other things proportionally expensive.