## 29th June

"Today, the 29th (Sunday), the ship was coaled and the tanks filled with water. We also took aboard some American officers and men. At 10pm the voyage of 500 miles to Archangel was commenced. Night was calm, cool and clear. I stayed on deck till about 1 o'clock watching the midnight sun and the beautiful scenery. Before leaving Alexandrovsk there was a good deal of bargaining with some Russian sailors and seamen off the boats lying close to us. Sometimes the scene was quite exciting. They were apparently eager to buy anything, especially articles of clothing. The great regret of us all was that we had not brought a good supply of old civilian clothes and boots. Such things as these fetched a lot of money. It is all paper money some being issued by the British government which is of the value of 6d per rouble and some issued by the Russian government which is 3d per rouble. 100 kopeks go to the rouble.

"In beautiful weather we passed through the White Sea, our boat steaming well at 15 knots. If the provisioning of the ship had only been better all would have been just A1, as it was the bad food spoilt it all. We have had no margarine or potatoes for several days. Fish for breakfast, fish for tea, fish for supper, bully beef dished up in a variety of forms each worse than the other. This has been the daily routine except that today we were given salt junk, which apparently must have been part of the provisions of Nelson's fleet. During the cooking of this salt junk the whole ship was permeated with an intolerable odour but this was mild torture compared to what we passed through when the stuff was put on the table and cut up. Two or three plucked up courage enough to try and eat it after it had been thoroughly disinfected with pepper, mustard, sauce and pickles but they soon gave up the struggle.

"10pm - The real history of this salt pork has just come to light. It was not part of Nelson's provisions but when alive it was closely related to the herd that ran violently down a steep hill and was drowned in the midst of the sea, hence its saltiness. This pork was found during dredging operations. In future, gas masks have to be worn in consequence of the odoriferous perfume that emanates from it during the process of cooking. Once a man succumbs to this overpowering perfume his recovery is very slow and tedious.