## 3rd July

"On the 3rd we moved up the river about 7 miles to Solombola for coal. Whilst lying at the wharf we were much interested in watching the Russian women in their boats bringing milk etc from the outlying farms. The milk they carry in little yellow tubs, and other produce in wide chip baskets. Five of the women came aboard and down into our cabin with milk. They did not want roubles, only food, soap or whiskey. Whiskey we had not got but for two pieces of soap (about a pound together), a few pieces of Bully beef, two or three crusts of bread and a little cooked rice we had about 6 gallons of very nice milk. It was a most welcome change from the yellow water of the Ovina, which we had had to drink.

"There is a tramway system from Solombola to Archangel. The cars are very good and run smoothly. The fare is 2 roubles for a distance of some 4 miles. The cars are about the only things that do run smoothly for the roads are terrible. Many of the side roads are soft and spongy and covered with thick grass. A wooden pavement runs either down the centre or along the sides. The main road is covered with rough cobblestones. Ruts, some of them 2 feet deep, are frequent but the drosky drivers take no notice of such trifles, they drive straight on and the poor passenger reaches the end of the journey bruised and shaken. The park is the place of attraction. Crowds gather to hear the band and do their courting during the evening. Along the Troitsky Prospect is a capital YMCA doing good work for the troops. They have a fine lending library greatly appreciated by the men. We could not take advantage of it because our movements are so erratic. It is a puzzle to know how the people manage to live considering the high cost of food and clothing. Oranges were 15 Russian roubles, cheese 12/- to 14/- a lb, chocolate 60 Russian roubles. Clothing of all descriptions is scarce and expensive. Whiskey is 60/- a bottle, eggs 3/- each, cup of tea or coffee 8 to 10 roubles, plate of ice cream 20 roubles (would be 6d in England). Everything is dear.