## 4th July

"July 4th. Some excitement was caused this evening by a biggish fire close to the wharf. All the houses, with but few exceptions, are built of wood and this one was a very large one and it burnt merrily. Fire engines were soon on the spot. These engines are amusing contrivances. A big barrel fastened to a kind of timber wagon with a hand pump behind. This lot is drawn by three little Tartar ponies. There was one really up to date engine, one of Shard, mason's electric power machines that soon had the fire under control.

"Before leaving Solombola we had quite an exciting experience. At low tide the boat had drifted under the timbers of the wharf, and as the water rose, her sponsons became wedged. A tug was requisitioned to pull us off but in doing this we took a great portion of the wharf with us doing a very considerable amount of damage. Our next berth was near the Garth Castle. Rumour is busy again concerning the future of our packet. One is to the effect that as our boat draws too much water we are to be used as a stationary over-flow hospital ship. Another is that the boat with several others is being sent back to England.

"I went ashore today and had a good ramble about the city. The condition of the roads is terrible in the extreme. The pluck of anyone who rides a motorcar or a motorcycle through Archangel is admirable and I admired the few I saw. My visit to one of the churches was perhaps of more interest than anything else. The few worshippers who were there at this early hour of the afternoon were apparently most sincere. The Russian people as a whole are profoundly religious and the influence of the priests is exceedingly strong. One meets these priests in almost every street, tall men as a rule, with long beard and hair. Dressed in long flowing gowns and tall hats. Their expressionless faces and peculiar garb gives them a very grotesque appearance, something like a very antiquated Father Christmas, only in black instead of white.