## 9th July

"On July 9th our little steamer proceeded up the river at 10am for Pinega. Picked up stores from SS Aro and SS Bacchus. We left at 2pm. The scenery up the river is very beautiful. The weather too is all that can be desired. The Ovina is very wide and for some 70 to 80 miles up, the current is slow, about 5 knots an hour. The evening is far advanced as we near the first stage of our journey. The rays of the setting sun are reflected in the smooth water on our left and the moon is showing up on our right. It is a rare treat. The white churches with their green and brown spires, which we pass at intervals, are exquisitely picturesque. In some of the villages there are queer little windmills looking very quaint and reminding one of Dutch scenes. The scent from the pinewoods, which comes floating on the evening air is deliciously sweet and invigorating. It seems scarcely possible that we are in the war area all is so still and quiet. Our little craft tried to pile herself on a sandbank about nine o'clock but floated off again shortly before 10. The staff of the boat consists of a surgeon Lieutenant, my mate Ernest Stanford and myself. There is crew of ten. My mate and I agreed that this first day on the SS Smaillie is the happiest day we've had since joining the MMR. Life on board the London Belle was most unhappy and uncomfortable. All the staff seemed to be continually at variance one with the other. This is a most welcome change.

"We arrived at Ust Pinega (mouth of Pinega river) at 3am. Had rather a rough night of it. My mate was very unwell. Also there were more visitors than we cared for. Thanks to Keatings we were relieved of their attentions. The weather is extremely hot. Gnats, flies, dragonflies and other insects apparently aware that we were new arrivals gathered in great force to welcome us. The river is falling rapidly and it will be impossible for us to ascend the river as far as Pinega itself that is 100 miles further up. The Bolos are busy around us just now.