## 13th July

"July 13th. Another hot day and the only place to keep cool is bathing in the river. Expecting to take sick and wounded to Archangel either today or tomorrow. Have just heard that the enemy entered the village again last night carrying off one of the civil guard. During the day, in spite of the terrific heat, regimental sports were held in the camp. Trenches have been dug; sandbag defences and gun emplacements have been erected facing the north. Tonight at 10.30 we went several miles up the Pinega River to take in wood. All these river steamers burn wood instead of coal. The wood is sawn up into pieces of from 2 to 4 feet in length, they are then split into halves and quarters, this is done principally by women. Indeed it seemed to me that women did most of the heavy work. After the wood is chopped it is put into stacks on the riverbanks. When a Captain requires wood he stops his boat near these stacks, measures off how much he wants and pays for it when he reaches the next village or destination. It is difficult for him to dodge payment for the authorities know how much his bunkers hold and how long it will last. Also all vessels are checked up and down the river. The man in charge of the wood section also knows how much wood has been taken and what steamers have passed during the day.

"Some girls brought down two badly wounded soldiers in canoes. These girls left their village some 45 miles up the river at 4 o'clock in the morning arriving at Ust Pinega at 6 in the evening. During their passage down they passed through a heavy thunderstorm, which soaked both them and their patients. Everybody admired the pluck and stamina of these young girls for of course there was the return journey to be made. Beside the wounded men they brought the wife of one man (a Mrs Schilling). The thunderstorm reached us in due course and almost washed away our little sickbay. The downpour was terrific. Later on I went ashore further up the Pinega River and gathered some beautiful wild flowers. Many of these are just like our English wild flowers. Also there are plenty of redcurrants, raspberries, bilberries and other fruits, including strawberries. Russia is a wonderful country with vast resources, which need development.