## 15th July

"July 15th. Left Archangel for Ust Pinega at 11.14am. During the afternoon quite an exciting little episode broke the monotony. The sparks from the funnel set alight to the stretchers stacked on the roof of the sick bay. Soon the lot was burning merrily. Fortunately one of the crew noticed it and a few buckets of water brought the firework display to a finish. Three of the stretchers were destroyed. This is one of the contingencies we have to guard against when the boat is steaming. Large flakes of red-hot wood fly out of the funnel. Presently one awakes to the fact that the coat, cap or hair is on fire and the occasional hot cinder dropping down the back helps to keep things lively. It is interesting to notice the various customs and habits of the Russian people. The women do their washing by the riverside. It is the women too who bring the produce and manufactures to the market, they also do most of the field work and agriculture labour. As a rule the men seem to be walking about and smoking. They are rough bearded fellows generally with a scowl on their face and almost inevitably dirty. Occasionally one is seen well dressed, clean and especially so if they have been in the army. The people drink their 'chi' (tea) from tumblers, without milk. At first I wondered what it was they were drinking, it looked like a pale wine, they soon told me it was 'chi'. Other drinks are difficult to get and very expensive. If a Russian enters into conversation with an English sailor almost the first thing he asks for is whiskey, rum and tobacco. His idea apparently is that we drink very little else but spirits and that it is our general custom to get drunk. "Anglisky minorga wiskey" he will say (that is "English have plenty whiskey"). So much for the general impression of Angliskey. The weather continues excessively hot although it is not quite so oppressive while steaming up the river. Stopped to bunker at a little village about five miles from Pinega. Soon the entire company of inhabitants were on the beach to see who we were and to 'skulka' some 'milaka'. This was 12 midnight but as light as day.