## 10th August

"The forward movement was begun at 11am today (Sunday). Heavy bombardment of the Bolo positions by our monitors, these cooperated with the artillery ashore. Some of the 6in shells fell close to the barges. One struck just forward of 334 and another aft. They fell very thick around the monitors. But fortunately there were no casualties. One very heroic deed was performed by some sailors and PO in a small boat. A floating mine was coming down the river dead onto one of the hospital barges. These men in the boat got between it and the barge with the consequence that they were blown up. The lives of many sick and wounded were saved by this plucky act.

"During the afternoon the monitors went further up the river, the gunfire increasing in intensity. About 3 o'clock a big fire was started in the village of Selzo[^1]. I had a good view of the operation having to go close up to the firing line. At 7pm gunfire became much heavier and as the evening wore on assumed gigantic proportions. Latest reports state that all is going well. In spite of the high wind and continuous downpour of rain, which is quite tropical in character, our hydroplanes and airplanes are very busy returning again and again for further supplies of bombs. All the hospital barges are moored higher up the river to receive casualties, which are heavy. The fighting is very stiff. Most of it is amongst the swamps and forests. The church at Troitsa just opposite the Hyderabad, (where we are berthed) has been repeatedly struck by shells and bullets. On one tower the cross is only held in position by one stay. It is most remarkable seeing that all has been shot away.

"10pm - Firing has ceased for the time being. Seltzo is burning furiously. The army ashore is advancing rapidly. It has been quite an exciting day. A great number of 'reba' (fish), are floating down the river killed and stunned by the explosions of shells in the water.

[^1]: Sel'tso